time as they can because it gives them more time to
become qualified. Now, when I came in, I brought
two years of experience with me, so I had a shorter
time to make tenure, but I also brought articles
I'd published and I had shared and I had some of
those experiences, so I didn't figure I needed as
much time.
What, as department head, did you have to
determine salary increases and all that for your
faculty? Yes. Do you have a set criteria, like all
of the other departments, as to what people have to
do to get tenure or to get promotion or to get the
merit? It's all merit. Is it all merit? Now, the
tenure and promotion guidelines our department
has just established, the faculty, we have a
faculty committee of both tenure and untenured
faculty worked on that. They've set those. As far
as merit, we're working on that. But I say we're
working because when Ed Tech came in and we had to
start all over again. Because the guidelines we
had with adult ed faculty I felt may or may not be
appropriate. So we're letting all faculty have
input into this. But these are guidelines that the
faculty agreed to. And we don't have points. We
don't say you've got to have so many publications
or anything like that. But we do have guidelines
within which these increases.
I believe that every faculty member deserves some
kind of a, at least a minimum raise.
From then on, then it becomes a merit. Now, the dean
appropriates each department with an X amount of
dollars. There's a number of dollars. And it
varies from department to department. I assume,
yes. And then within that, you allocate that as you
see fit. But overall, the College of Education
faculty's salaries are not comparable to other
colleges? I don't think so. No, I've never got the
book out and looked at it. But I had a faculty member
do it two or three years ago. He said we've got the
lowest paid faculty. And position by position,
our assistant professors and associate and fulls
are lower paid than most other colleges. I think
even liberal arts, I think we're lower. What about
when I hear from a couple of women that I've
interviewed that The women are not given enough
opportunities in the College of Education for
leadership. For example, I think in the whole
university, there's only one department head
that's a female. Do you get any pressure in the
College of Education to hire more women or
minorities or any of that? Is there? We get strong
suggestions to hire minorities. But of our five
faculty in adult ed, three are female. So I don't
have any problem there. Although I think the
majority of our students are going to be female in
the future if they aren't already, which I think is
appropriate. In Ed Tech, we only have one female
faculty member because none apply. We did offer a
job last year to a female faculty member in Ed Tech,
and she turned us down. There wasn't enough money.
That's all the money we had. And as far as
leadership, I can assure you that none of the
females in our department have won any
leadership. I've offered them leadership. And
they always say, no, we don't want it. And one of
them has a favorite saying, I'm not after
anybody's job, so I enjoy my work.
I think one of them would be a good leader, but she
just won't even consider it. Are you willing to
share the restructuring of EdTech coming into
your department? How did that come about? All I
know is the dean asked me to... design a plan for
that happening. Nobody in our department asked
for it to happen, and we're not disappointed that
it happened. They're good faculty. But you'll
have to ask the dean. They're very autonomous,
though. I mean, it's pretty sad. They're kind of
doing a totally different... They have their
graduate study program. They have a master's
degree program, and they offer undergraduate
courses to the college. There's a coordinator,
and... They determine their own degree plans. And
they're very autonomous because there are
certain things we do departmentally that we all do
together. But I know nothing about that area. And
those faculty make their own decisions. Do you
feel in the college that there is a great deal of
autonomy? For example, you as department head
don't go around checking on your faculty where
they are or what time or whether they're in classes
or what their classes are doing. Is it pretty once?
For example, how much autonomy do you have as a
department head versus you or your faculty? I
think as a college, we're very autonomous. I don't
check on people unless I start getting
complaints. Then I start following up on it.
Otherwise, I don't worry about where my faculty
are. And then the dean doesn't actually dictate or
specify or give you very, very set things to
follow? Not very often. You pretty much can... can
do what you feel is necessary. As long as we stay
within the policies and procedures of the
university. Can you just tell me a couple or
describe or something, elaborate or enlighten me
about a policy committee meeting? What exactly is
it and what happens in these policy committee
meetings? They vary.
We usually under... Under most conditions, we get
a report as to what happened at the academic
policies committees for the deans and deans of the
colleges to give some idea of what's happening
university-wide. We get, I would say, soundings
on problems that are university-wide that might
affect the college. If there's a decision to make
on something that we have to do as a college, the
dean usually asks the department how they want to
go about doing it and what would be the best thing
for us.
Dean's staff usually has some things to share with
us on things that are going on, reports that are
due, data that are due in, a lot of this kind of
thing. Sometimes we get into some very
philosophic discussions about what the college
ought to do. There's never consensus, but there
are disagreements, but they're usually followed
up in a professional way, and everybody
understands you can disagree and not worry about
it. But sometimes the dean suggests something,
and occasionally, even though the department
heads want it another way, the dean will say, I
think this is what's in the best interest of the
college, and here's the way it's going to be. I have
heard that department heads are not given an
opportunity to meet apart from the dean's staff.
If you wanted to, could you, or have you ever? It's
interesting. About three years ago, I started a
luncheon meeting of all department heads in the
college. I called one. set it up invited everybody
came we had lunch and we sat around and talked for
about an hour everybody agreed we ought to do it
again and i said okay it's somebody else's turn to
set it up and we've never met since i refuse to set
them up all the time but you can if you want to know
there's no policy just in fact uh this last year uh
dr phillips dean of faculty met with all
department heads in groups of about seven or eight
from different colleges over lunch and had some
excellent discussions. And I understand there's
supposed to be a department heads council
developed. What do you think about the faculty
senate and what has evolved out of that? I think
it's a good thing. I don't agree with all their
decisions, but I think it's a good thing. And I
think faculty ought to have input. Did that come
from the president? Was that initiated by the
president? The president supported it. It came
from some faculty. got together and initiated.
OK, the last thing I'm going to ask you is about the
Development Council, because you have been
actively involved with the Development Council
since the beginning. Tell me a little bit about
where you think it's going or what your
perceptions are. There's a little bit of change in
focus. For a long time, it was all of the department
heads lining up and getting up and giving a report
and sitting down. And now the focus is kind of
changing a little bit. And we're trying to get more
work out Development Council. But I'm hearing
that the Development Council doesn't have
direction as to where they're going to go. It
started out as it was just going to be advisory. Now
it's because of the challenge of the provost that
this last Development Council joined the faculty
meeting of the 150,000. There's a more thrust to
fundraising. How do you feel about all of that?
Well, I think the Development Council ought to be a
working council. We need your advice,
definitely, but I think you ought to be working.
Fundraising may be part of it, recruiting,
possibly identifying programs or places where
the faculty or departments can become involved in
that kind of thing. I also believe that for years,
the council really didn't accomplish too much.
But I don't think it's the council's fault. I don't
think they were given much to do. And if there's
going to be a change of direction now with specific
things they can work on, I think it'll be good. As
far as department heads' reports, I don't think
the department heads wanted to give them, nor I
don't think the council wanted to hear them.
I got that feeling from everybody. So I think the
council would be better off meeting and working.
If they need a department head or two, call them in
and ask them, talk to them. But don't have all these
people sitting around and... Now that they're...
Breaking into committees, your interest on adult
literacy is one of the areas that they want to work
in. Do you perceive being able to work for things
that the council will be able to help you with? I
hope so, but I wasn't at the last meeting because of
a conflict, and I don't know what happened and
haven't been given any report yet, so I'm still
waiting for that. Okay. Well, Dr. Seaman, I want to
thank you for sharing so many insights, and I
appreciate your input. And if you have any...
documents or things that you run across that would
give me some extra ideas or some things to verify
what I've been getting, I would appreciate it. And
if I have some questions down the road after I start
trying to put it all together, I hope you'll let me
come back and ask you a couple of more questions.
You know my telephone number.